       Albert Einstein, the renowned genius Theoretical Physicist  once said “It has become appalling that technology has exceeded our humanity.” This brilliant quote is an accurate representation of how we live in society today and how technology will impact us tomorrow. Technology’s all around us, and we use it every single day even if we notice it or not. Technology may be used to help us and make life easier but it may have gotten too far. Technology is significantly having a negative impact on our ability to retain knowledge. This is because it is becoming our brains external hard drive, it is overloading us with information, and is becoming a big distraction for the younger generations. 

       Now that we have given an overview, Let’s dig deeper into how and why the internet and technology is becoming the brains external hard drive. In a study led by psychologist Betsy Sparrow at the University of Columbia and her collaborators from the University of Wisconsin and Harvard, found that when people were posed a difficult question, they are likely to think that the internet will help them find the answer. People tend to memorize answers if they believe that it is the only way they will have access to that information in the future. Regardless of whether they remember the facts, however, people tend to recall the Web sites that hold the answers they seek. Another study which was done by Kaspersky Lab conducted global research to analyze how digital devices and the Internet affect the way people recall and use information today – and what, if anything, they are doing to protect it....The results showed that 91% of Americans surveyed admitted their dependency on the Internet and devices as a tool for remembering and as an extension of their brain. Similarly, 79.5%, of the Europeans surveyed, admit using Internet as a universal reference book. These studies show evidence for how humans in the technology world today struggle to remember information with their own brain but rather rely on technology such as the web to remember it for them. As the results from the studies show, a transactive brain is causing us to forget information that we might need to recall immediately. Dr.Sparrow and her collaborators proved that people's brainpower is not being used to it's maximum potential due to technology at everyone's fingertips. Then the question arises; So has the internet dumbed down society or is it simply a  unit that enhances the human brain's memory capacity?

       This leads us into our next point, Information overload,which is making it hard for us to retain information. When a neuroscientist and a psychologist were interviewed they said that "Information overload refers to the notion that we're trying to take in more than the brain can handle, we used to think that you could pay attention to five to nine things at a time. We now know that's not true. That's a crazy overestimate. The conscious mind can attend to about three things at once. Trying to juggle any more than that, and you're going to lose some brainpower. In an article written in 2015 by CNN stated that Information overload is leading to something called “neural fatigue” or “decision fatigue”. In the article the author says “If you're making a bunch of little decisions, like do I read this email now or later? Do I file it? Do I forward it? Do I have to get more information? Do I put it in the Spam folder? That's a handful of decisions right there, and you haven't done anything meaningful. Many of us are finding that despite how much knowledge and information we have access to in our modern times, it’s actually much harder than ever before to retain it. That makes us slower when it comes to decision making, and it can be a big detriment for employees. Information overload is really affecting our brains in a negative way because it is impacting our decision making skills, causing us to multitask all resulting in a waste of time waste time. This waste of time may be time spent researching, surfing the web or even doing a simple task like over thinking what to wear every morning. Some hypothesize that this is why Mark Zuckerberg always wears his classic gray tee-shirt and why steve jobs always wears a black turtleneck. Everyday we are faced with lots of new information that comes in a variety of forms such as video games, the web, television and other forms of media. It is very difficult for us to store all of this data in our brain and this is what causes information overload. Digital fatigue however,  is caused by us deciding if we want to store the information or not. All of these things happen in just a fraction of seconds which is not enough time for our brain to process. Despite all of this we have unknowingly fall into the trap of distractions. 

       Distractions from technology and the web make it difficult to form memories and perform cognitive tasks mainly for younger  generations. According to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation done in 2010,  the average kid sponges in 2.5 hours of music each day, almost five hours of TV and movies, three hours of Internet and video games, and just 38 minutes of old-fashioned reading. In a study conducted by Dr. Larry Rosen, a psychology professor at California State University, students were observed studying for a 15 minute period where they were told to "study something important.” On average "students only spent about 65 percent of the observation period actually studying." That’s not exactly what you might consider “quality” studying time. Now let’s get into what Digital dementia is. “Digital Dementia”, is a term given by a German neuroscientist Manfred Splitzer in a book that he published in 2012.  The term used to describe how overuse of digital technology is resulting in the breakdown of cognitive abilities in a way that is more commonly seen in people who have suffered a head injury or psychiatric illness. As the data shows, humans get distracted very easily with access to technology right in front of them. This may not affect adults as much but school children still have growing brains and bodies. So getting off track while they are studying is a very bad habit because precious productivity is being lost. Going back to the term “Digital Dementia”, since overuse in technology leads to a breakdown in cognitive abilities, the millennials who rely heavily on technology may suffer deterioration in cerebral performance such as short term memory dysfunction. While the adults who were born around a quarter century ago,  grew up remembering phone numbers and other key information simply by memorizing it, most kids today have grown up not needing to remember things like phone numbers because we have devices that do it for us.

	With technology at our hands we are being overloaded with information, unknowingly falling into the trap of distractions, and using technology as a transactive brain. Hoping that there is a solution in the future, all we can do now is limit our use of technology by keeping a log and not exceeding a threshold time. And when you have unanswered question instead of turning to the internet, get your hands on a book  and simply read about your topic, you won't get distracted and the facts will stick. When I mentioned Albert Einstein’s quote which was “It has become appalling that technology has exceeded our humanity.” Now we see how much of an impact technology has on us. 








